Hey, guys.
This is lecture 27 and in this lecture
we are gonna be learning how to
work HTML with Python and pandas.
So we are going to import the usual,
import pandas, SPD and then from pandas
import Series, and DataFrames.
Something we're going to import in
order to read HTML data is from pandas.
We're going to import read_html.
So to get HTML data, we're gonna grab
a URL for a list of failed banks.
And that URL, I'm gonna copy and
paste it from the IPython Notebook Book,
link, and that's the URL right here.
An important note,
you're gonna need two things
installed in order to do this.
You're gonna have to either pip or Conda
installed, depending on your installation.
You're gonna need a pip
install beautiful soup.
It's a scraping tool to use for
webscraping and
then you're also going to
need to install html5lib.
So you should already be pretty
familiar in how to these pip installer
condons installed based on the pipeline
installation that you chose.
So you're going to need to
install both beautiful soup and
HTML5 in order to do this lecture.
All right, so once you have those guys
installed, you can grab data from HTML and
put it to a list of data frame objects.
So to show you what I mean, I'm going to
create an object called d-frame list,
and then from that, I'm going to use
pd.io.html.read_html.
I'm gonna read that URL that I just did.
This is going to grab data
from the HTML and
put it into a list of dataframe objects.
So let's let our dframe, our dataframe
equal to the first object in that list.
And then we're gonna show it as well.
Nice.
So now the first object in that data
frame list, we just took it, and
then we acquired this data frame.
If we take a look at the actual website,
so
we'll copy and paste this into my browser.
So we just copied this list right here,
this failed bank list.
Cool.
Now we got that going.
Notice how we have null values where
Pandas wasn't able to
find any other values.
So let's say you just
wanna know the columns.
We can just, as we've learned before,
just ask for the column values.
And let's see what we got.
So we got the bank name, the city,
the state, CERT, acquiring institution,
etcetera, etcetera, all the way
to the Closing and Updated Date.
So we got all that information and
it's now in a data frame.
So we can do a bunch of stuff with it.
What we've learned in the past
on working with data frames or
whatever you really want to
do with this information.
So that's how you open up HTML
files with pandas in python.
The main take aways here are just
you're gonna need to use read_html,
using pd.io.html.read_html on
whatever that URL you decided to use
that happened to be in HTML, and then
that will get you a list and you can grab
from that list to create your data frame.
And then just make sure that you have
installed beautiful soup, and HTML5 LIB.
Okay, that's it for this lecture.
Next we're going to learn how
to work with Excel files.
I'll see you there.